README.md, before:

# CivicSense - Smart Civic Issue Reporting Platform

A full-stack platform for citizens to report, track, and resolve civic issues using real-time maps and smart GPS detection.

## Project Structure
- **/my-app**: React frontend (built with Leaflet, Tailwind CSS, and Recharts)
- **/backend**: Node.js & Express backend (MongoDB, Cloudinary for images, Nodemailer for notifications)

## Quick Start

### 1. Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+)
- MongoDB (Local or Atlas)
- Cloudinary Account (for image uploads)

### 2. Backend Setup
```bash
cd backend
npm install
# Create a .env file based on .env.example
npm start
```

### 3. Frontend Setup
```bash
cd my-app
npm install
npm start
```

## Features
- **Interactive Leaflet Maps**: Real-time pinning and GPS auto-detection.
- **Smart Status Tracking**: Visual markers on the map (Green for Resolved, Orange for Pending).
- **Admin Dashboard**: Manage complaints and assign departments.
- **Data Insights**: Comprehensive analytics for city infrastructure health.

---
Built for Hackathon Project 2026.

Commit message:

Updated deployment instructions for Vercel and Railway

README.md, after:

# CivicSense - Smart Civic Issue Reporting Platform

A full-stack platform for citizens to report, track, and resolve civic issues using real-time maps and smart GPS detection.

## Project Structure
- **/my-app**: React frontend (built with Leaflet, Tailwind CSS, and Recharts)
- **/backend**: Node.js & Express backend (MongoDB, Cloudinary for images, Nodemailer for notifications)

## Quick Start

### 1. Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+)
- MongoDB (Local or Atlas)
- Cloudinary Account (for image uploads)

### 2. Backend Setup
```bash
cd backend
npm install
# Create a .env file based on .env.example
npm start
```

### 3. Frontend Setup
```bash
cd my-app
npm install
npm start
```

## Features
- **Interactive Leaflet Maps**: Real-time pinning and GPS auto-detection.
- **Smart Status Tracking**: Visual markers on the map (Green for Resolved, Orange for Pending).
- **Admin Dashboard**: Manage complaints and assign departments.
- **Data Insights**: Comprehensive analytics for city infrastructure health.

## 🚀 Deployment Guide

### 1. Frontend (Vercel)
- **Repo Link**: Connect this GitHub repo.
- **Root Directory**: Select `my-app`.
- **Framework Preset**: `Create React App`.
- **Environment Variables**:
  - `REACT_APP_API_URL`: Set this to your Railway Backend URL (e.g., `https://backend-production-xyz.up.railway.app`).

### 2. Backend (Railway)
- **Repo Link**: Connect this GitHub repo.
- **Root Directory**: Select `backend`.
- **Environment Variables**:
  - `MONGO_URI`: Your MongoDB connection string.
  - `JWT_SECRET`: A long random string.
  - `CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME`: (Required for photos)
  - `CLOUDINARY_API_KEY`: (Required for photos)
  - `CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET`: (Required for photos)
  - `EMAIL_USER`: (For notifications)
  - `EMAIL_PASS`: (For notifications)
  - `CLIENT_URL`: Set to your Vercel URL (e.g., `https://civicsense.vercel.app`).
  - `PORT`: (Railway sets this automatically, but you can default to 5000).

---
Built for Hackathon Project 2026.
